---
id: 85
title: '&#8220;The Quiz&#8221;'
date: 2008-01-23T09:30:28+00:00
author: Jonathan Howard
layout: post
guid: http://staringispolite.com/blog/?p=85
permalink: /2008/01/23/the-quiz/
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---
Today and tomorrow, we&#8217;re getting a Perl Guru to come in and teach a boot camp on Perl (the main programming language we use at FreeCause.)

I&#8217;ve only really heard two things about him:
  
1) He&#8217;s created packages that are actually distributed with the Perl programming language now.
  
2) He sweats unapologetically.

The first step in his boot camp is a &#8220;programming test&#8221; which is not really a knowledge test as much as it is  a series of questions he uses to expand how you think about programming.  I&#8217;m not sure how effective this was while just answering the questions, but the first thing today will be a discussion of everyone&#8217;s answers.  I think that&#8217;ll be more eye opening.

At any rate, time to get to work!  But for fun, the questions are included below, with my answers:

what is a computer?
  
A machine that can compute things

what is code?
  
A set of instructions that tell the computer what to do

what is a program?
  
One cohesive chunk of code that can be run as a whole

what is programming?
  
The act (art?) of creating programs

what is a programmer?
  
One who programs

<div>
  what is a programming language?
</div>

A set of rules and syntax by which a programmer programs a program

what is a script?
  
Can also be a program, but is often smaller, with minimal GUI elements, and is usually interpreted rather than compiled directly into machine language

what is a compiler?
  
A program that changes what a programmer programmed into what a computer computes

what is an interpreter?
  
A program that performs the actions programmed without compiling into machine language

<div>
  what is a virtual machine?
</div>

A program that provides a common &#8220;machine&#8221; language, to remove the need to compile for each possible &#8220;real&#8221; machines your program would run on

why is programming easy?
  
Like learning any country&#8217;s language, getting by only takes a week or so of practice.

why is programming hard?
  
If you want to be a lawyer in that language, that&#8217;s a whole other story.

<div>
  when you code, who is the most important PERSON you should be thinking<br /> about?
</div>

The person who will be using it.

<div>
  other than comments, what is the most important HUMAN oriented aspect of<br /> your code?
</div>

The interface and help

<div>
  what is the number one PURPOSE of comments?
</div>

messages into the future &#8211; documenting the code for someone else to understand later.  (preventing code-rot)

<div>
  bonus question (hint &#8211; it is a trick answer):<br /> what is the opposite of spaghetti code?
</div>

antipasto code?