---
id: 46
title: 2009 Resolution Recap
date: 2010-01-18T00:35:58+00:00
author: Jonathan Howard
layout: post
guid: http://staringispolite.com/blog/?p=46
permalink: /2010/01/18/46/
categories:
  - self-improvement
---
I want to take resolutions a little seriously this year, so I&#8217;ve been waiting to decide on 2010 New Years&#8217; Even Resolutions for the hype to die down and make sure I really want to stick with the ones I chose. In the meantime, how about a little accountability on last years&#8217; go (Resolutions copied and pasted from my Twitter account <a href="http://twitter.com/staringispolite" target="_blank">@staringispolite</a>):

**The Resolution:**
  
#1 Support more web start-ups. On the list are Twitter & Pandora. Looking 4 more on startuply & yCombinator. Other ideas?
  
**Results?**

  * Continued engineering role at FreeCause.com, helped it get acquired by Rakuten.
  * Made SevenUp, an IE6 upgrader script used by 1000&#8242;s of blogs & startups around the world.
  * Subscribed to Inc Magazine and FastCompany Magazine.
  * Evangelized Twitter & Pandora. Didn&#8217;t pay for Pandora One when it came out later that year.
  * Acted as an informal technical/strategic advisor to two friends&#8217; startups.

**Grade****: <span style="color: #ffcc00;">70% </span>**
  
I really all but forgot about this resolution a month into 2008. I think I accomplished most of this list on &#8220;accident&#8221; just by virtue of enjoying it, but not seeking it out. That could be a plus really, since it was my nature and not an artificial push.. but this one was originally about becoming a paying customer, so can&#8217;t say I did great there. But all in all I&#8217;m actually pretty happy with this one. The magazines saved me, plus SevenUp & advising are arguably more important anyway.

**The Resolution:**
  
#2 Eat more food.http://tinyurl.com/8ouoz8
  
**Results?**

  * Probably 6-8 mo of high meal count days, with each meal being smaller than normal.

**Grade: **<span style="color: #ffcc00;"><strong>70%</strong></span>
  
I did start having 5 snacks or smaller meals a day on a regular basis, at least until I left FreeCause (and thus broke my daily routine). Especially during the 300 workout with Frank, which kicked my ass for 2 months and lost me 15 lbs! Can&#8217;t say I kept this up throughout the year (or even remembered it was a resolution either) but I did do it for a significant amt of time! And I did lose weight and gain muscle over the year, so overall, this one&#8217;s a success.

**The Resolution:**
  
#3 Know less. Understand more. <a href="http://bit.ly/INWh" target="_blank">http://bit.ly/INWh</a>
  
**Results?**

  * Max 1 mo of using gut feelings/understanding in cases where I&#8217;d normally use pro/con lists, etc

**Grade: **<span style="color: #993300;"><strong>10%</strong></span>
  
Not only forgot about this one, but was surprised to find it in my 2009 list! (Thought it was making its first appearance for 2010&#8230;)
  
The purpose was to experiment with Malcolm Gladwell&#8217;s hypothesis in Blink that your gut can make decision better and faster than your brain; and that for many situations, more data will only confuse the situation more, and at worst may actually bring you to the wrong conclusion. I failed miserably at this one until my 2009 job search, where the pro/con list approach had me going against my gut (on several different occasions actually) and I made the hard decision to trust my gut each time. I&#8217;m very happy with the decision.

**The Resolution:**
  
#4 Discover one new technology, product, website, or service every day. Today: http://www.gist.com is in private beta
  
**Results?**

  * Discovered 100&#8242;s of new web products in 2009! All are listed on my Twitter account <a href="http://twitter.com/staringispolite" target="_blank">@staringispolite</a>
  * Started the #dailydiscovery hashtag, which the Discovery Channel even picked up! (As well as several of my friends.)
  * Didn&#8217;t keep the frequency up to one every day
  * But my awareness of the startup world, and the tools available (many of which are themselves startups) is much higher now, to the point where it can feed into #3

**Grade **<span style="color: #339966;"><strong>90%</strong></span>

**Overall:**
  
- My resolutions last year were pathetically immeasurable from the start
  
- I lost focus on all but one of them very quickly.
  
+ I was able to do well indirectly through my nature itself, which is heartening.
  
+ If I make this years&#8217; measurable and set up a way to keep them at the top of my mind, I should do very well this year

Here&#8217;s to a great year coming up for all of us.