---
id: 261
title: 500 Words. Day 27.
date: 2012-03-25T10:11:07+00:00
author: Jonathan Howard
layout: post
guid: http://staringispolite.com/blog/?p=261
permalink: /2012/03/25/500-words-day-27/
categories:
  - self-improvement
---
I&#8217;m curious if there&#8217;s a ranking of WordPress themes (maybe even plugins) by the quality of their code and how clean the markup they create is. From my experience hand-editing the &#8220;twenty eleven&#8221; theme (the default that ships with WordPress) even that one has terribly formatted PHP code, and the markup it generates isn&#8217;t much better. Even if they just fixed the indentation I&#8217;d be much happier. I wonder if they would appreciate an offer to fix that for them. That&#8217;d be a pretty cool project with a reasonably big impact, and as someone I interviewed this week said: &#8220;I felt the pain, so why not build the pain-killer?&#8221;

<!--more-->

Yesterday was really strange, I felt like a zombie and slept through most of the day. (Technically I wrote my 500 words, ate breakfast, had a long call with my family, and watched a bit of TV.) But the main event was a massively long nap that I woke up from at 6:30 or so. Then I hung out a bit with my roommate and the friends he had over for his birthday, got delivery with them for dinner and that was basically the whole day. I managed to sneak in some good updates to the site afterward, though. It now resizes much better, has about 200 more pixels above the fold, and looks great on mobile. I think the last step before it&#8217;s &#8220;done&#8221; is to get my own pictures uploaded in place of the default WordPress ones.

[Most of the words today were in the personal topic so today's a short one.]

Saturday goals:

  * <span style="color: #008000;"><strong>Nap</strong></span>
  * <span style="color: #008000;"><strong>Talk to family</strong></span>
  * <span style="color: #ff0000;"><strong>Finish unpacking</strong></span>
  * <span style="color: #008000;"><strong>2 hours’ work on staringispolite.com</strong></span>

<div>
  <strong>Sunday:</strong>
</div>

<div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <strong>Finish unpacking</strong>
    </li>
    <li>
      <strong>2 more hours on staringispolite.com</strong>
    </li>
    <li>
      <strong>2 hours on Minted Art Submissions</strong>
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>