---
id: 31
title: 500 Words. Day 3.
date: 2012-02-29T09:56:04+00:00
author: Jonathan Howard
layout: post
guid: http://staringispolite.com/blog/?p=31
permalink: /2012/02/29/500-words-day-3/
categories:
  - self-improvement
---
Whoops! That was close. I almost failed on the third day.

Let me back up a step: Typically, I wake up multiple times a night (a separate thing I&#8217;ve been working on since last year) and last night was no exception. I remember waking up twice: once for apparently no reason; and just now, I woke up early to the pitter-patter of little garbage truck wheels outside my apartment. The first time, I just grumbled and went back to sleep. This time, I got up, used the bathroom, and my mind started going to my 500 words. What would I write about today? Maybe I should just start now, and get a jump start on the day! Has my sleep schedule adjusted to 8:30 already?

Nope! It&#8217;s 9:15. fffffuuuuuuu

Okay, progress report: one goal failed on Day 3. Could be worse. I still count it as a win that, even during a &#8220;too early&#8221; garbage truck break from sleep, my instincts are starting to move toward producing. Both mornings this week, after writing, I&#8217;ve felt inspired to get to work on the blog. In fact, yesterday some of that routine spilled over into evening/night downtime as well. It was easier to start writing this morning as well. I&#8217;m sure it helped to get the shock/adrenaline of &#8220;Hoooo! 45 minutes late!&#8221; Here&#8217;s hoping there&#8217;s some element of &#8220;third time&#8217;s the charm&#8221; in there as well and it is, in fact, getting easier. At minimum, 500 words doesn&#8217;t seem as daunting anymore. I was not expecting that to go away for a while.

My progress on producing is happening surprisingly quickly. Day 1, I honestly didn&#8217;t think I was going to do anything but write 500 words, and instead I installed WordPress on my personal site in time to post the entry there and still get to work on time. Day 2, I spent a couple hours learning how WordPress works, from both a user and a code perspective. Today I spent 45 minutes sleeping, so we&#8217;ll have to work on that. But I&#8217;m excited to continue polishing! The contrast to, well, all of 2011, is stark. Not that I didn&#8217;t do anything in 2011: I was a tech lead at a major Facebook games company, attended GDC&#8217;11, travelled to Hawaii for the first time, started at my current job &#8211; <a title="Minted Jobs" href="http://minted.com/jobs" target="_blank">which I love, by the way</a>, gave a lightning talk on <a title="Like, Python" href="http://staringispolite.com/likepython" target="_blank">Like, Python</a> that somehow got its way onto the python.org wiki, and worked on several small side-projects with my friends. Surely, in that time, I could have spent the 3-4 hours it&#8217;s taken so far to get this blog installed and customized where it is now. (Side-gripe: WordPress&#8217;s &#8220;Famous 5-minute Install&#8221; is easy, but quite a misnomer.)

I think I&#8217;ll finally get to some goals for today this time. In no particular order:

  * **Blog structure** &#8211; I don&#8217;t really have a vision for the homepage. Should I just move /blog up a level? I don&#8217;t like the load times I&#8217;ve been seeing, but there&#8217;s no use in keeping my own homepage if a) it&#8217;s crap, and b) I have no use in mind for it. Make a decision and move on.
  * **Blog content** &#8211; move entries over from other hosted platforms, so I own my own data.
  * **WordPress auto-updates and FTP** &#8211; 1and1&#8242;s FTP service is pretty terrible. Passwords take more than 30 minutes to update, and as far as I can tell, ftp://1and1help.com is everyone&#8217;s FTP domain. That is intuited from unrelated screenshots in their FAQ, because it&#8217;s never stated explicitly. Call them and figure out why I still can&#8217;t log in. Manual updates are fine for now, but will get old fast.
  * **Call Amazon** - My Kindle screen has been broken for a week. There&#8217;s a small chance they may replace it. I have yet to call.

Thank you, garbage truck man. That was close.

&nbsp;