---
id: 219
title: 500 Words. Day 19.
date: 2012-03-17T09:38:35+00:00
author: Jonathan Howard
layout: post
guid: http://staringispolite.com/blog/?p=219
permalink: /2012/03/17/500-words-day-19/
categories:
  - self-improvement
---
Knock on wood, but I opened the curtains and it’s not raining outside right now. That’s the first time I can say that in the last 5 days and it feels pretty good to see the sky in the morning. (A little bit of it anyway – think we have a few more days in store). I should get to the grocery store while this lasts. When I picked up the steaks & marinade ingredients for steak night, I had to walk 10 minutes through the rain each way. My paper bags got so soaked I honestly can’t believe nothing tore out of the bags.

Speaking of which, Steak Night was awesome! <!--more-->More about that – and pictures! – in its own dedicated post

[Personal topic took up about half of the 500 today]

I’ve noticed that writing in the morning has lost its _je-ne-sais-quoi_ it had in the beginning. Most days I wake up now and I just want to get to producing, but I have to do my 500 words and it feels like that holds me back from getting things done. I think the value has shifted. It used to draw its value from forcing me into producer mode. Now its value is more often in tracking where my head’s at and dealing with any distractions that come up along the way. Or thinking through difficult decisions, which always seem much clearer after you write a couple hundred words about the pros and cons and how you feel about them.

Friday goals:

  * <strong style="color: #008000;">Steak Night!</strong><span style="color: #008000;"> </span>
  * <strong style="color: #008000;">Recruiting Fail</strong>
  * <strong style="color: #008000;">Stretch goal: non-&#8221;500 words&#8221; blog post</strong>

<div>
  Saturday:
</div>

<div>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <strong>Laundry</strong>
    </li>
    <li>
      <strong>Groceries </strong>for the week
    </li>
    <li>
      <strong>Make a bone broth</strong> out of the Steak Night bones
    </li>
    <li>
      <strong>Rest/nap.</strong> I&#8217;ve been feeling extra tired lately
    </li>
  </ul>
</div>